also in the first year of Darius the
also in the first year of Darius the Mede I even I stood up to confirm and
Mede I even I stood up to confirm and
Mede I even I stood up to confirm and strengthen him and now I will tell you
strengthen him and now I will tell you
strengthen him and now I will tell you the truth behold three more Kings will
the truth behold three more Kings will
the truth behold three more Kings will arise in Persia and the fourth shall be
arise in Persia and the fourth shall be
arise in Persia and the fourth shall be far richer than them all by his strength
far richer than them all by his strength
far richer than them all by his strength through his riches he shall stir up all
through his riches he shall stir up all
through his riches he shall stir up all against the realm of Greece then a
against the realm of Greece then a
against the realm of Greece then a mighty king shall arise who shall rule
mighty king shall arise who shall rule
mighty king shall arise who shall rule with great dominion and do according to
with great dominion and do according to
with great dominion and do according to his will and when he has arisen his
his will and when he has arisen his
his will and when he has arisen his kingdom shall be broken up and divided
kingdom shall be broken up and divided
kingdom shall be broken up and divided toward the four winds of heaven but not
toward the four winds of heaven but not
toward the four winds of heaven but not among his posterity nor according to his
among his posterity nor according to his
among his posterity nor according to his Dominion with which he ruled for his
Dominion with which he ruled for his
Dominion with which he ruled for his kingdom shall be uprooted even for
kingdom shall be uprooted even for
kingdom shall be uprooted even for others besides these also the King of
others besides these also the King of
others besides these also the King of the South shall become strong as well as
the South shall become strong as well as
the South shall become strong as well as one of his Prince's and he shall gain
one of his Prince's and he shall gain
one of his Prince's and he shall gain power over him and have dominion his
power over him and have dominion his
power over him and have dominion his Dominion shall be a great Dominion and
Dominion shall be a great Dominion and
Dominion shall be a great Dominion and at the end of some years they shall join
at the end of some years they shall join
at the end of some years they shall join forces for the daughter of the King of
forces for the daughter of the King of
forces for the daughter of the King of the South shall go to the king of the
the South shall go to the king of the
the South shall go to the king of the north to make an agreement but she shall
north to make an agreement but she shall
north to make an agreement but she shall not retain the power of her Authority
not retain the power of her Authority
not retain the power of her Authority and neither he nor his authority shall
and neither he nor his authority shall
and neither he nor his authority shall stand but she shall be given up with
stand but she shall be given up with
stand but she shall be given up with those who brought her and with him who
those who brought her and with him who
those who brought her and with him who begot her and with him who strengthened
begot her and with him who strengthened
begot her and with him who strengthened her in those times
her in those times
her in those times but from a branch of her roots one shall
but from a branch of her roots one shall
but from a branch of her roots one shall arise in his place who shall come with
arise in his place who shall come with
arise in his place who shall come with an army enter the fortress of the king
an army enter the fortress of the king
an army enter the fortress of the king of the north and deal with them and
of the north and deal with them and
of the north and deal with them and prevail and he shall also carry their
prevail and he shall also carry their
prevail and he shall also carry their gods captive to Egypt with their princes
gods captive to Egypt with their princes
gods captive to Egypt with their princes and their precious articles of silver
and their precious articles of silver
and their precious articles of silver and gold and he shall continue more
and gold and he shall continue more
and gold and he shall continue more years than the king of the north also
years than the king of the north also
years than the king of the north also the king of the north shall come to the
the king of the north shall come to the
the king of the north shall come to the kingdom of the king of the south but
kingdom of the king of the south but
kingdom of the king of the south but shall return to his own land however his
shall return to his own land however his
shall return to his own land however his sons shall stir up strife and assemble a
sons shall stir up strife and assemble a
sons shall stir up strife and assemble a multitude of great forces and one shall
multitude of great forces and one shall
multitude of great forces and one shall certainly come and overwhelm and pass
certainly come and overwhelm and pass
certainly come and overwhelm and pass through then he shall return to his
through then he shall return to his
through then he shall return to his fortress and stir up strife and the King
fortress and stir up strife and the King
fortress and stir up strife and the King of the South shall be moved with rage
of the South shall be moved with rage
of the South shall be moved with rage and go out and fight within with the
and go out and fight within with the
and go out and fight within with the king of the north who shall muster a
king of the north who shall muster a
king of the north who shall muster a great multitude but the multitude shall
great multitude but the multitude shall
great multitude but the multitude shall be given into the hand of his enemy when
be given into the hand of his enemy when
be given into the hand of his enemy when he has taken away the multitude his
he has taken away the multitude his
he has taken away the multitude his heart will be lifted up and he will cast
heart will be lifted up and he will cast
heart will be lifted up and he will cast down tens of thousands but he will not
down tens of thousands but he will not
down tens of thousands but he will not prevail for the king of the north will
prevail for the king of the north will
prevail for the king of the north will return and muster a multitude greater
return and muster a multitude greater
return and muster a multitude greater than the former and shall certainly come
than the former and shall certainly come
than the former and shall certainly come at the end of some years with a great
at the end of some years with a great
at the end of some years with a great army and much equipment now in those
army and much equipment now in those
army and much equipment now in those times many shall rise up against the
times many shall rise up against the
times many shall rise up against the king of the south also violent men of
king of the south also violent men of
king of the south also violent men of yore
yore
yore people shall exalt themselves in
people shall exalt themselves in
people shall exalt themselves in fulfillment of the vision but they shall
fulfillment of the vision but they shall
fulfillment of the vision but they shall fall so the king of the north shall come
fall so the king of the north shall come
fall so the king of the north shall come and build a siege mound and take a
and build a siege mound and take a
and build a siege mound and take a fortified city and the forces of the
fortified city and the forces of the
fortified city and the forces of the South shall not withstand him even his
South shall not withstand him even his
South shall not withstand him even his choice troops shall have no strength to
choice troops shall have no strength to
choice troops shall have no strength to resist but he who comes against him
resist but he who comes against him
resist but he who comes against him shall do according to his own will and
shall do according to his own will and
shall do according to his own will and no one shall stand against him he shall
no one shall stand against him he shall
no one shall stand against him he shall stand in the glorious land with
stand in the glorious land with
stand in the glorious land with destruction in his power he shall also
destruction in his power he shall also
destruction in his power he shall also set his face to enter with the strength
set his face to enter with the strength
set his face to enter with the strength of his whole kingdom and upright ones
of his whole kingdom and upright ones
of his whole kingdom and upright ones with him thus shall he do and he shall
with him thus shall he do and he shall
with him thus shall he do and he shall give him the daughter of women to
give him the daughter of women to
give him the daughter of women to destroy it but she shall not stand with
destroy it but she shall not stand with
destroy it but she shall not stand with him or be for him after this he shall
him or be for him after this he shall
him or be for him after this he shall turn his face to the coastlands and
turn his face to the coastlands and
turn his face to the coastlands and shall take many but a ruler shall bring
shall take many but a ruler shall bring
shall take many but a ruler shall bring the reproach against them to an end and
the reproach against them to an end and
the reproach against them to an end and with the reproach removed he shall turn
with the reproach removed he shall turn
with the reproach removed he shall turn back on him then he shall turn his face
back on him then he shall turn his face
back on him then he shall turn his face toward the fortress of his own land but
toward the fortress of his own land but
toward the fortress of his own land but he shall stumble and fall and not be
he shall stumble and fall and not be
he shall stumble and fall and not be found there shall arise in his place one
found there shall arise in his place one
found there shall arise in his place one who imposes taxes on the glorious
who imposes taxes on the glorious
who imposes taxes on the glorious Kingdom but within a few days he shall
Kingdom but within a few days he shall
Kingdom but within a few days he shall be destroyed but not in anger or in
be destroyed but not in anger or in
be destroyed but not in anger or in battle
battle
battle and in his place shall arise a vile
and in his place shall arise a vile
and in his place shall arise a vile person to whom they will not give the
person to whom they will not give the
person to whom they will not give the honor of royalty but he shall come in
honor of royalty but he shall come in
honor of royalty but he shall come in peaceably and seize the kingdom by
peaceably and seize the kingdom by
peaceably and seize the kingdom by intrigue with the force of a flood they
intrigue with the force of a flood they
intrigue with the force of a flood they shall be swept away from before him and
shall be swept away from before him and
shall be swept away from before him and be broken and also the prints of the
be broken and also the prints of the
be broken and also the prints of the Covenant and after the league is made
Covenant and after the league is made
Covenant and after the league is made with him he shall act deceitfully for he
with him he shall act deceitfully for he
with him he shall act deceitfully for he shall come up and become strong with a
shall come up and become strong with a
shall come up and become strong with a small number of people he shall enter
small number of people he shall enter
small number of people he shall enter peaceably even into the richest places
peaceably even into the richest places
peaceably even into the richest places of the province and he shall do what his
of the province and he shall do what his
of the province and he shall do what his fathers have not done nor his
fathers have not done nor his
fathers have not done nor his forefathers he shall dispersed among
forefathers he shall dispersed among
forefathers he shall dispersed among them the plunder spoil and riches and he
them the plunder spoil and riches and he
them the plunder spoil and riches and he shall divide his plans against the
shall divide his plans against the
shall divide his plans against the strongholds but only for a time he shall
strongholds but only for a time he shall
strongholds but only for a time he shall stir up his power and his courage
stir up his power and his courage
stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south with a
against the king of the south with a
against the king of the south with a great army and the King of the South
great army and the King of the South
great army and the King of the South shall be stirred up to battle with a
shall be stirred up to battle with a
shall be stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army but he shall
very great and mighty army but he shall
very great and mighty army but he shall not stand for they shall devise plans
not stand for they shall devise plans
not stand for they shall devise plans against him yes those who eat of the
against him yes those who eat of the
against him yes those who eat of the portion of his delicacies shall destroy
portion of his delicacies shall destroy
portion of his delicacies shall destroy him his army shall be swept away and
him his army shall be swept away and
him his army shall be swept away and many shall fall down slain both these
many shall fall down slain both these
many shall fall down slain both these Kings hearts shall be bent on evil and
Kings hearts shall be bent on evil and
Kings hearts shall be bent on evil and they shall speak lies at the same table
they shall speak lies at the same table
they shall speak lies at the same table but it shall not prosper for the end
but it shall not prosper for the end
but it shall not prosper for the end will still be at the appointed time
will still be at the appointed time
will still be at the appointed time while returning to his land with great
while returning to his land with great
while returning to his land with great riches his heart shall be moved against
riches his heart shall be moved against
riches his heart shall be moved against the holy Covenant so he shall do damage
the holy Covenant so he shall do damage
the holy Covenant so he shall do damage and return to his own
and return to his own
and return to his own and at the appointed time he shall
and at the appointed time he shall
and at the appointed time he shall return and go toward the south but it
return and go toward the south but it
return and go toward the south but it shall not be like the former or the
shall not be like the former or the
shall not be like the former or the latter for ships from Cyprus shall come
latter for ships from Cyprus shall come
latter for ships from Cyprus shall come against him therefore he shall be
against him therefore he shall be
against him therefore he shall be grieved and returned in rage against the
grieved and returned in rage against the
grieved and returned in rage against the holy Covenant and do damage so he shall
holy Covenant and do damage so he shall
holy Covenant and do damage so he shall return and show regard for those who
return and show regard for those who
return and show regard for those who forsake the holy Covenant and forces
forsake the holy Covenant and forces
forsake the holy Covenant and forces shall be mustered by him and they shall
shall be mustered by him and they shall
shall be mustered by him and they shall defile the sanctuary fortress then they
defile the sanctuary fortress then they
defile the sanctuary fortress then they shall take away the daily sacrifices and
shall take away the daily sacrifices and
shall take away the daily sacrifices and placed there the abomination of
placed there the abomination of
placed there the abomination of desolation those who do wickedly against
desolation those who do wickedly against
desolation those who do wickedly against the covenant he shall corrupt with
the covenant he shall corrupt with
the covenant he shall corrupt with flattery but the people who know their
flattery but the people who know their
flattery but the people who know their God shall be strong and carry out great
God shall be strong and carry out great
God shall be strong and carry out great exploits and those of the people who
exploits and those of the people who
exploits and those of the people who understand shall instruct many yet for
understand shall instruct many yet for
understand shall instruct many yet for many days they shall fall by sword and
many days they shall fall by sword and
many days they shall fall by sword and flame by captivity and plundering now
flame by captivity and plundering now
flame by captivity and plundering now when they fall they shall be aided with
when they fall they shall be aided with
when they fall they shall be aided with a little help but many shall join with
a little help but many shall join with
a little help but many shall join with them by intrigue and some of those of
them by intrigue and some of those of
them by intrigue and some of those of understanding shall fall to refine them
understanding shall fall to refine them
understanding shall fall to refine them purify them and make them white until
purify them and make them white until
purify them and make them white until the time of the end because it is still
the time of the end because it is still
the time of the end because it is still for the appointed time
for the appointed time
for the appointed time then the King shall do according to his
then the King shall do according to his
then the King shall do according to his own will he shall exalt and magnify
own will he shall exalt and magnify
own will he shall exalt and magnify himself above every God shall speak
himself above every God shall speak
himself above every God shall speak blasphemies against the God of gods and
blasphemies against the God of gods and
blasphemies against the God of gods and shall prosper till the wrath has been
shall prosper till the wrath has been
shall prosper till the wrath has been accomplished for what has been
accomplished for what has been
accomplished for what has been determined shall be done
determined shall be done
determined shall be done he shall regard neither the god of his
he shall regard neither the god of his
he shall regard neither the god of his father's nor the desire of women nor
father's nor the desire of women nor
father's nor the desire of women nor regard any God for he shall exalt
regard any God for he shall exalt
regard any God for he shall exalt himself above them all but in their
himself above them all but in their
himself above them all but in their place
place
place he shall honor a God of fortresses and a
he shall honor a God of fortresses and a
he shall honor a God of fortresses and a God which his fathers did not know he
God which his fathers did not know he
God which his fathers did not know he shall honor with gold and silver with
shall honor with gold and silver with
shall honor with gold and silver with precious stones and pleasant things thus
precious stones and pleasant things thus
precious stones and pleasant things thus he shall act against the strongest
he shall act against the strongest
he shall act against the strongest fortresses with the foreign God which he
fortresses with the foreign God which he
fortresses with the foreign God which he shall acknowledge and advance its glory
shall acknowledge and advance its glory
shall acknowledge and advance its glory and he shall cause them to rule over
and he shall cause them to rule over
and he shall cause them to rule over many and divide the land for gain at the
many and divide the land for gain at the
many and divide the land for gain at the time of the end the King of the South
time of the end the King of the South
time of the end the King of the South shall attack him and the king of the
shall attack him and the king of the
shall attack him and the king of the north shall come against him like a
north shall come against him like a
north shall come against him like a whirlwind with chariots horsemen and
whirlwind with chariots horsemen and
whirlwind with chariots horsemen and with many ships and he shall enter the
with many ships and he shall enter the
with many ships and he shall enter the countries overwhelm them and pass
countries overwhelm them and pass
countries overwhelm them and pass through he shall also enter the glorious
through he shall also enter the glorious
through he shall also enter the glorious land and many countries shall be
land and many countries shall be
land and many countries shall be overthrown but these shall escape from
overthrown but these shall escape from
overthrown but these shall escape from his hand
his hand
his hand Edom Moab and the prominent people of
Edom Moab and the prominent people of
Edom Moab and the prominent people of Ammon he shall stretch out his hand
Ammon he shall stretch out his hand
Ammon he shall stretch out his hand against the countries and the land of
against the countries and the land of
against the countries and the land of Egypt shall not escape he shall have
Egypt shall not escape he shall have
Egypt shall not escape he shall have power over the treasures of gold and
power over the treasures of gold and
power over the treasures of gold and silver and over all the precious things
silver and over all the precious things
silver and over all the precious things of Egypt also the Libyans and Ethiopians
of Egypt also the Libyans and Ethiopians
of Egypt also the Libyans and Ethiopians shall follow at his heels
shall follow at his heels
shall follow at his heels but news from the east and the North
but news from the east and the North
but news from the east and the North shall trouble him therefore he shall go
shall trouble him therefore he shall go
shall trouble him therefore he shall go out with great fury to destroy and
out with great fury to destroy and
out with great fury to destroy and annihilate many and he shall plant the
annihilate many and he shall plant the
annihilate many and he shall plant the tents of his palace between the Seas and
tents of his palace between the Seas and
tents of his palace between the Seas and the glorious holy mountain yet he shall
the glorious holy mountain yet he shall
the glorious holy mountain yet he shall come to his end and no one will help